so you've been asked to be interviewed
on a podcast or youtube interview series
and now you're getting ready for the
experience you're not sure what to
expect
you've come to the right place hey
everyone my name is wade patterson and
my youtube channel is all about
impactful communication what that looks
like in all shapes and forms a big focus
on public speaking but also a focus on
podcasting and interviewing and being
interviewed so if this is your first
time to my channel please subscribe
to the channel ton of great video
content throughout but back to this
video it's funny because i have a video
that talks about tips for podcast hosts
who are about to interview somebody i'm
going to give
or start off with the same tip that i
give in that video and that is to do
research now really it should be the
host that's doing research about you as
the
guest but i also suggest as a guest you
do a little bit of research what is this
show that you're going on what is the
typical length of an episode is it live
is it pre-recorded are there questions
that they typically start off every
interview asking is there questions that
they ask at the end of every interview
are there commercials in between how do
they intro the show there are a lot of
questions that you can be asking so that
once you are being interviewed whether
it's zoom whether it's something like
zencaster that could be audio only
whatever the format is you're already a
bit prepared for it you know whether
video is going to be included you know
again if it's going to be pre-recorded
or live and that will just allow you to
get into the conversation without any
surprises you're not going to be rattled
probably by anything that happens
because you already have a feel of how
the show works and you can really just
focus on answering the questions that
are asked of you speaking of those
questions you are more than in your
rights to ask the interviewer
what general topics or themes he or she
is going to ask you about now it's
interesting because i actually tell
podcast hosts to not just send a full
list of questions verbatim and as the
guest i don't think that you should over
over prepare i don't think you should be
writing down answers on a piece of paper
anything along those lines
but it is really helpful to know the
general subjects and themes that may be
discussed on the podcast so that you can
be prepared but also expect the
unexpected sometimes hosts will hear you
say something and they'll want to take
the conversation in a different
direction because for whatever reason
maybe they think that is an interesting
way to go and if they do that
it's tough not to freeze or get rattled
but go with the flow
they're asking you this question if you
don't if you're not an expert on
something you can say that that's okay
you can say well you know my strength is
actually in this side i'm i'm a little
bit unfamiliar with how that works but
my general understanding is and you can
respond that way that is totally fine
what's also possible sometimes if it's a
pre-recorded conversation and there was
a question you were asked that is just
way out there and you know your response
was horrible you can ask afterward in
their post-production in their edits if
there's a way that they can tweak that i
don't really like to suggest it because
the best conversations are typically
natural but i was actually recently a
podcast guest on on a particular show i
was asked a question that was way out of
my realm of expertise i tried to answer
it i fumbled over it i didn't do a great
job and afterward i did talk to the host
and i said you know do you mind cropping
that together getting rid of that i
don't think i'm going to do any benefit
to your audience on this answer and they
were totally fine with that they're used
to making those subtle edits anyways my
suggestion is don't go with a big list
of edits that you expect but if there's
something that you're dreading or you
feel is just way out there
you can put in the request they don't
have any obligation to necessarily do
that but it's a fair request to have
otherwise keep in mind there are so many
podcasts out there where other people
have been in that situation they haven't
known the answer there's been glitches
it hasn't been perfect but the audience
is okay with that they are used to these
types of conversations it doesn't have
to be perfectly polished in fact some
people enjoy these conversations more
because they're more raw they feel
authentic so just go with the flow in
the conversation in terms of your setup
whether it's audio only like a podcast
or if it's audio and video maybe it's a
youtube series that also has a podcast
you want to be aware of what that format
is and have whatever equipment you can
to make it as good as possible if you
have no equipment other than a laptop
that's okay
things to be mindful of or what are what
are your background what is behind you
because that is what the audience will
see
what you're wearing how presentable you
are again if it's a formal serious
podcast
you may want to dress up
accordingly or if it's super casual and
people just hang out and they drink a
beer the host drink a beer maybe you
have a beer or something you're like hey
cheers and you want to join them have a
feel for what the format is and then use
as much
equipment that you have if you can bring
in great good lighting or something like
what i have behind me where it's like a
little
colorful light behind i mean that's
going to blow away the host that's
taking it to the next level sometimes if
you're going to be doing a few of these
interviews you may want to purchase a
higher quality microphone right now i'm
wearing a lav mic there's also
other mics that you can have like a yeti
which is the usb mic which is higher
quality than what your internal laptop
mic is going to be way higher quality
and so if you're going to be doing a few
interviews it may be worthwhile to up
that audio because the better quality
audio the smarter you sound i know that
sounds weird but it's very true
oftentimes when people have the right
equipment even if what they're saying is
base level intelligence people it sounds
more intelligent just because the
quality is so high one thing you may
want to be mindful of if you have a lav
mic or sometimes headphones with the
microphone
if you have longer hair longer than me
probably that applies to everyone
watching this video be careful that the
hair or anything isn't rustling with the
microphone isn't hitting it bumping into
it because that sound will be picked up
i've heard this a lot
in interviews let's say you have a yeti
microphone sometimes people will will be
touching it or like like bump it or
there will be papers brushing against it
and it's incredibly distracting it's
almost impossible to edit out so you
want to be mindful check with the host
beforehand that your mic sounds okay
that your video quality is good and yeah
if all of that is taken care of you're
going to crush this you're going to do
such a good job do your research be
prepared not over prepared but enjoy the
process and congratulations for being
asked to be interviewed on a show that's
so cool i hope this video brought you a
little bit of value if it did please
please please subscribe to my channel
i'm going to continue to push out really
great video content that helps you
become a better more impactful
communicator if i miss something that
you think is really important for the
audience to know add it in the comments
if you enjoyed the video add it in the
comments just comment like it turn on
notifications all of that stuff you know
the drill thank you so much and i hope
you have an awesome day